In this video I'll demonstrate how to set up a cluster of VSX I hosts for high availability.
So here you can see we've already created a cluster and it contains two ESX I hosts and one running
virtual machine.
So I'm going to start by clicking on my cluster and choosing configure in under configure.
I can go to the VST fear availability option and at the moment availability is turned off and proactive
ha is turned off.
OK so let's go ahead and click on at it and we can start to configure some of our high availability
settings here.
So we're going to start by simply turning on VSE for high availability.
And you can see here there are some definitions right as far as what we want ha to do and when.
So at the moment it's configured to simply restart any Reems that are on a host if that host fails.
Right.
That's what H.A. is going to do for us.
It's not going to give us 100 percent uptime it's not constant uptime solution but if a host does fail
those VMs will reboot on other ESX host.
We can also do things like have our VMS boot up on a different host if there is a host isolation event.
All right so if an ESX host loses the ability to communicate with the other hosts over the heartbeat
network that host is considered to be isolated.
So we can choose what action we want to take there.
If there are storage conditions that occur like a permanent device loss or in all paths down condition
we can also reboot those VMs on other hosts or if the guest operating system itself fails we can reboot
that virtual machine right on the same host.
These are all actions that VSE for high availability can take.
So let's take a look and choose some of our configurations here.
Now in my scenario for my host failure response if my ESX host fails I want those VMs to restart and
by default all VMS are going to have the same priority.
So all of my VMS will have a medium priority by default right.
I'll show you in a little while how to override some of those settings on individual Vienna's.
I can also create virtual machine dependencies right.
So if I want to create some virtual machine dependencies I can do that as well.
Right.
And I can set conditions that all have to be met in order for virtual machines to boot up my host isolation
response.
In this scenario I'm going to assume that if my management network is down my VMs are probably nonfunctional
as well.
It may be the management network shares hardware with a storage network or something like that.
So I'm going to go ahead and say you know what if we have a management network failure and I know heartbeats
don't work anymore.
Go ahead and shut down those VMs boot them up on another host.
So I'm going to enable that
permanent device loss.
I'll enable that as well.
And all paths down condition.
So if there is just some sort of storage failure like for example a permanent device loss is a scenario
where your storage array is going down and it sends a sends code to tell the ESX host Hey I am failing
I'm not coming back.
That's a permanent device loss condition.
And in that case we might as well power off and restart those VMC.
Now let's take a look at it.
Mission control.
All right.
So at Mission Control has changed significantly in Envy's fair 6.5 in older versions we had to worry
about things like slot size right by default.
That's the way that our A ha coster's used to be configured as with the slot policy and that led to
a lot of little problems like sometimes you weren't able to power on VM.
Or sometimes you had significant resource wastage.
So in ESX 6.5 one of the great things that they've changed is that's no longer the scenario.
Right.
So what it will do is if you configure the default settings the center will determine OK we need to
protect against one host failure or to host failure or three host failures.
Right.
You choose how many hosts that you want to basically prepare for the loss of it.
So if I have a hundred hosts I might need to accommodate three or four host failure simultaneously.
But in my environment I only have two hosts so I'm only going to tolerate one host failure.
So where this is going to do is it's essentially going to say OK if the biggest host fails what percentage
of our resources do we lose and then it'll basically reserve that capacity so that in case a host does
fail things will still continue to operate normally with no performance degradation.
Now what if I say you know what I'm OK with a certain level of performance degradation you know maybe
if I lose one of my two hosts maybe I'm willing to let everything run with only 75 percent of the normal
speed.
Maybe some of my Wii may not perform quite as well.
I can live with that.
So I'm going to go ahead and get that 75 and then I'm going to do some other things to minimize the
impact of that resource shortage.
Show you those things a little bit later.
There we've got our heartbeat data stores.
This is kind of a backup method for my host to heart beat.
So that way if the management network goes down the hosts can accurately determine the status of the
other hosts.
And that's really it for now.
All right I'm going to go ahead and hit OK here and I have now enabled high availability on my Questor.
I am now going to simulate and ESX I host failure by powering off this ESX host without putting in maintenance
mode.
So all right click the host.
I'm going to do shut down.
It'll warn me that it's not in maintenance mode and so my Wii motion demo virtual machine is going to
fail at this point.
And my Wii motion demo VM is going to fail when that host shuts down.
And let's go ahead and monitor this virtual machine and let's see what's going on with it as the ESX
I hope it fails.
So the ESX host has failed.
Now my virtual machine is disconnected.
Right.
We can see here the virtual machine is disconnected that's the first bad thing that happened right.
Right now the VM is disconnected.
We'll keep an eye on this for a minute here.
It's not going to take very long for that virtual machine to start rebooting on a different ESX host.
OK so I paused my recording for a little while and just to kind of speed things up a little bit.
For those of you watching and here you can see eventually ha restarted the virtual machine.
And so now we can see here on our second ESX host that this virtual machine running on the other host
which is exactly what we would expect to see with high availability.
So we have now configured ha on our ESX host cluster.
Now one final thing I just want to point out before we move on here let's take a look at the configuration
of this V.M..
There are some critical things that we need to make sure are configured properly.
All right.
Number one our virtual machine needs to be on shared storage.
And so we've got that here now is good.
The network adapter needs to be connected to a network that is present on both of the ESX host.
Right.
So those are some of the things that add a virtual machine level could potentially create some problems
with ha.